MPCS 53013 - FINAL PROJECT

I want to create an application that illustrates how socioeconomic factors impact crime rates in various chicago neighborhoods.
I obtained my datasets from the following data.gov websites: 
http://catalog.data.gov/dataset/crimes-2001-to-present-398a4
http://catalog.data.gov/dataset/census-data-selected-socioeconomic-indicators-in-chicago-2008-2012-36e55
*Since the second dataset is limited between 2008-2012, I will only use crimes between those year ranges from the first dataset for the sake of accuracy.

My goal is to create an application that exposes the most significant factors that contribute to high crime rates in certain neighborhoods in Chicago.
It will also be interesting to see where, when, and what type of crimes occur most often.
For example, the application could help answer the following questions about crime trends in Chicago:
What time do crimes most often occur?
What day of the week typically sees the most crime?
What month of the year typically has most crime?
How is the annual rate of crime changing
What type of crime is most common in Chicago?
Which neighborhoods have the highset crime rate in Chicago?


Batch Layer:
I uploaded the crime data into hive using crime.hql

How many crimes per community area?
For each community area, how many crimes of each type are there?


Serving Layer:
Crimes by Community:
community_area -> crimes per hour (12AM-1AM, 1AM-2AM, ..., 11PM-12PM)
community_area -> crimes per day of week (Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday)
community_area -> crimes per month (Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Nov, Dec)
community_area -> crimes per year (2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012)
community_area -> indicators

Speed Layer:


Web Interface:
A map of chicago communities: clicking on a community area shows crime stats and indicators about that community
Several options in a menu for trends
Two charts for visualizing crime and indicator trends:
Different bar or line graphs showing the frequency of crimes per hour, day, month, year, type of crime, community area etc.
Chicago map color coded gradient showing which community area has the most: crimes, type of crime, indicators
Chart that shows side-by-side a communities number of crimes compared to Chicago's average and that communities socioeconomic hardship indicator compared to the average.
Want to show that inidicators have a direct correlation to crime rate


